>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Lastly,
I want to talk about,
I showed distinct in
the context of anonymous types.
You can also do them on
values like string or int.
You can do those on those kinds of
values to get a distinct list of items.
There is a group by method
which is really neat.
So given that you have a bunch of
employees, you can group them together.
Let's group them real
quick by var grouped.
It would be employees.GroupBy,
and we'll just say by e.FirstName
because we know that there are multiple
employees with those first names,
put that return statement down so
it only prints what I want.
And then we can spin through this
group var employees in group.
And what grouped,
is actually an IEnumerable
of another IEnumerable,
a special type called IGrouping,
so we can print to the Console
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: WriteLine.
We can say emps.Key that key is
the value that we've grouped on.
So what we can say is we're.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: We
can print that key right here,
which it would take the people that had
the same name and group them together.
So what you'd end up with is
a collection of two Snapes,
another collection of Spencer,
Micah, and Grant.
And if you look through you, as I
mentioned this is also an IEnumerable so
you can perform it for each on that,
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: And
then Console.WriteLine.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Last name,
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Is emp.LastName.
So that's a way you can actually do
some kind of grouping operations,
which are really useful.
And as you can see,
these Spencer employees, the last name
George, there's one there are two Snape
employees with the first name Snape
that have the last name George.
And we can change this to Larry and
show that even more explicitly dotnet run.
You can see that there are two
employees named Snape and
they each have a last name of George and
Larry respectively.
And then we have Micah employees and
then Grant.
And so that's a way that you can use to
group together values in a collection,
which is incredibly useful, occasionally.
Last LINQ method that I will mention is if
you have, for say, a list of managers, and
each of those managers has
an employee under them,
you may want to select all of the values
of each of these employee arrays and
then flatten them out
into one single array.
So you might wanna combine this array and
this array, but you only want one array.
So you can use what's called SelectMany,
and that will take those collections and
flatten them out into one such
that the the names that will be
printed to the console here are Mike,
Jane, Peter, and Chris.
So we've selected that collection here,
and then with SelectMany and
then basically it just takes those two
collections and combines them together.
Honorable mention,
to join something that very rarely gets
used because of the nature of some
of the libraries that we use, which we'll
touch on in the ASP.NET Core course.
But join is a way to take two collections
and join them together on an equal value.